[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: What
you're about to see
on Beyond Belief may frighten
you, it may shock you,
but I'm telling you,
it is truly authentic.
Todd Standing is with us, a
researcher and filmmaker who,
after a life changing Sasquatch
encounter 20 plus years ago,
dedicated himself to
proving their existence.
He gathers evidence, studies
their family structure
and abilities, and advocates
for their recognition,
believing that they hold
the keys to human evolution.
Todd, you do great work.
Welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>TODD STANDING:
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: Todd, how did
this happen for you?
>>STANDING: Well, I
started out as a skeptic
and I started with
a scientific paper
at a university I was studying
at to disprove the species
existence.
So it was called a hoax,
mistaken identity theory.
And my whole point
of it was to show
there was no ecological
niche for a primate species
to survive all
through North America,
into the Pacific Northwest.
I thought it was
an easy equation.
And obviously, I started
working with what
I considered to be some
of the best wilderness
experts in the world, which
are Native Americans and First
Nations people.
Best trackers, bar none.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>STANDING: And they know
this species is real.
They're not believers.
And I'd start seeing
tracking information,
and it's still, as skeptical
as I could try to be--
it changed for me when a
wildlife biologist from Great
Falls, Montana, took
me out on an expedition
and I was able to film two
pieces of Sasquatch video,
and it obviously wasn't the
film so much as the experiences
and what I was
witnessing in that time
period, that just blew my mind.
It was such a paradigm
shift in my life
that it's affected
me so profoundly
that this incredible
bipedal manlike
species exists, that I've been
just dedicated to it ever since.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
Some of the video we're going
to look at later in the program
is astounding.
How do you compare it to
the Patterson-Gimlin film.
>>STANDING: I don't.
Patterson-Gimlin
film is a classic,
incredible piece of information,
and I could literally do a whole
documentary about the
Patterson-Gimlin film like
you've never seen,
because that Sasquatch--
and I'll talk about that for
the first time ever right here--
that Sasquatch was
waiting for Patterson,
and she walked that walk to
show humanity that they exist.
And I can actually prove
that through multiple pieces
of evidence that
Patterson left behind
and what that Sasquatch
particularly did.
So from my perspective,
way beyond the evidence,
the gaits, the bipedalism, the
mannerism in which she walks--
I mean, that footage--
it's scary to me
how people can be
so dissident to
something that is
such incredibly obvious proof.
It's Jeff Meldrum talks about it
and he's got his whole analysis
from Grover Krantz and all
these great people, that
have proven that footage is
absolutely, totally authentic.
And my footage-- well,
what's different about me
is Patterson had his
shot and that was it.
With me, it's repeatability.
I have these videos
and many of them--
none of them have the track--
like the combination of what
the Patterson footage brought
together is brilliant.
What I have is different videos
showing size, showing speed
that a man can't do, showing a
nine foot six tall individual
walking anatomically moving
faster than the fastest man.
So all these different things
with facials and whatnot
that I have, but it's
a body of evidence.
And for the first
time ever, not only I
have this evidence with
the DNA, with the footage,
but I take people out
and show them Sasquatch.
And that's what
Patterson couldn't do.
And that's what I do
and what sets me apart,
is the evidence will never stop.
I'm at video nine,
video 10 and growing.
It'll never stop coming and I'll
never stop taking out people.
The best in the world
have come out with me.
Jeff Meldrum, speaking
of him, that man
saw Sasquatch in my documentary
after three days with me.
After a half a lifetime
of searching for them,
in three days he saw a
Sasquatch, and that's
happened 29 times, where people
go, I've seen your videos.
I've seen your footage.
Oh my god, there's a Sasquatch.
And it's growing every year.
I'm out in the
field over 100 days
guiding people, doing my own
expeditions, gathering evidence.
I mean, literally, it's
a de facto discovery
from my perspective.
I don't know what
else can I do, George.
I've taken out Survivorman.
I've taken out doctors,
lawyers, judges, PhDs.
All these great men and women.
Wildlife officers will testify.
>>NOORY: They're all witnesses.
>>STANDING: They've
all seen a Sasquatch.
What man or woman do I have to
take out, show them a Sasquatch
before people will start
understanding that this
is legit, this is real?
The discovery is happening.
>>NOORY: You were at the
University of Alberta.
>>STANDING: Correct.
>>NOORY: At what point did
you see your first Sasquatch?
>>STANDING: Well, that was when
I went to Great Falls, Montana,
under the guidance
of that biologist.
And I shot what I
call video 2 and 3.
So I have multiple videos.
And each video--
each video segment--
I consider there's
a video 5 where
I've got like six different
photographs and three
different angles I got
video of a Sasquatch.
So each incident is
video 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
That's why I say,
I'm up to video 9
and I've produced
nearly 30 Sasquatch
videos, 50 photographs in
those nine sequences of videos.
And that was the
first one that really,
again, made me
become so passionate.
And the learning
[LAUGHS] when I look
back at who I was
compared to who I am now.
And that's why Gaia is such a
good fit for me because you guys
are about the spiritual inner
workings and things like
telepathy that are sort of--
they're really scientific now--
>>NOORY: And we want the
truth and you bring it-- you
bring us the truth.
>>STANDING: I mean,
what do I have to do?
What does Gaia have to do
before people understand
that we're really speaking about
we're the evolution of mankind?
Sasquatch, this is the key.
They're telepathic.
How do you sneak up on something
that can feel you coming,
that knows your intent?
And we know, those
of us who are in the
know, telepathy
is legit and real.
And when you walk around naked
and you eat a perfectly balanced
nutritional diet and you're
connected to the earth,
and you understand
all these life force
energies and the trees and the
mushrooms and the sphagnum moss,
you're highly telepathic,
it allows you an ability
to be quantum in a way that
I've never actually seen
a human being be capable of.
This species literally thrives
being telepathic, being quantum,
and seeing things in a
deeper, meaningful way.
And that's precisely
what Gaia is all about.
That's why you guys
are successful,
and that's why I'm here.
>>NOORY: Tell us about the DNA.
What does it tell you?
>>STANDING: It was so
incredible because--
so if I do a little scale, so
the DNA goes orangutan, gorilla,
chimpanzee and human, right?
So everybody thought that
this chimpanzee human,
it would be here.
And they're not.
They're over here.
So literally as a
hominid is, their DNA
shows a more advanced hominid.
They are further away from
the great apes than we are.
And that's why the DNA
is what people say,
we're just something between
chimpanzee and human.
And that's what Todd's doing.
He's mixing up in a crock
pot in his basement DNA.
No, no, no, no, you can't
mix advanced hominid DNA.
And the more I learn
about this species--
so I've worked with Les
Stroud, survivorman,
toughest, legitimate,
amazing dude
that there is when it comes to
wilderness filming and outdoors.
That human being, if I put
him out in the wilderness,
I said, no technology, no
survival skills, naked, survive.
Probably wouldn't make
it in three months.
If I did that with
the Sasquatch,
I could come back in three
years and he'd be fat
and he'd have his feet up.
Who's a more advanced hominid?
And I think you
have your answer.
And it shows that
in the DNA, which
should blow people's minds.
We're supposed to be the most
advanced hominid, but we're not.
Period.
>>NOORY: Didn't Melba
Ketchum have some DNA, too?
>>STANDING: Well, it
wasn't Melba Ketchum at all
that interested me.
She was just a hired gun.
It was what Adrian Erickson
did who paid for it.
And most importantly,
nobody asked this question.
Where did the DNA come from?
And she doesn't want
to talk about that.
It's one thing to be a lab
tech and to analyze something
that you're paid to do.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>STANDING: Where did
that DNA come from?
And that's all I wanted to know.
And Adrian Erickson, the one
that put it all together,
the man who deserves all
the credit for the DNA
and paid for all
those studies, he
found a man, Randy
Brisson, and that's
who I went after,
because that's what I am.
I'm boots on the ground.
I want to know--
Because the DNA is
legit, but who got it?
And nobody ever asked that.
And I did, and I've
worked with Randy Brisson,
and he's an incredible boots on
the ground amazing researcher
that gets no credit.
And he got the DNA, right?
>>NOORY: Do you find the
Sasquatch to be male female?
What are they?
>>STANDING: Both incredibly
masculine, amazingly feminine.
I see both.
I have a female
colleague researcher
that I work with that
has more interactions
with the feminine side.
And there's a
particular Sasquatch
that I filmed who's a
female, who I call Jane.
She gets incredible
interactions with her.
So we're really working
towards having that.
Well, first of all, I
need a female researcher
because the greatest
primatologist of all time not
arguably, are Jane Goodall,
Dian Fossey and Birutė Galdikas.
All women.
So I worked very
hard over the years
to get a female involved
in this discovery process.
And now she goes
out as a feminine
and gets this incredible
interactions with them
in a very specific way.
And I go out as a masculine
and I do it very differently,
and I get different
individuals that
appreciate me and come around
me more as same as she does.
In fact, everybody
I take out, there's
a Sasquatch that has a chemistry
with a particular person,
and they'll come and they'll
interact with that person
and separate myself from them.
And that's really what
makes my research different,
too, is they're my teachers.
I don't have anything
to offer them.
I go out there hubris and
humble and ask them to guide me.
I literally know that-- so I can
only take out 30 people a year
on expedition.
A lot of them are repeats
that want to come back.
I have hundreds of
people that want to go.
It's the Sasquatch that
guide me to these people.
So if somebody wants
to see a Sasquatch
and the Sasquatch
sees them as a light
and telepathically wants to meet
them, they use me as a conduit.
And that's my job as a good
student of the Sasquatch,
who are my teachers, who are up
levels above me when it comes
to spirituality, telepathy,
and even wilderness knowledge
and understanding, as a
superior teacher, they guide me.
And that's why I'm so
successful at what I do,
because I don't really--
I can't take somebody out and
force a Sasquatch to see them.
These people have to attract it.
And the Gaia network understands
that better than anybody.
The law of attraction,
the reality
of the power of telepathy,
mind speak, remote viewing.
The Sasquatch have been doing
that for thousands of years.
I can prove that.
So we're just in our
infancy studying.
Their first sensory perception
is through telepathy.
>>NOORY: Has there
ever been any reports
of human Sasquatch hybrids?
>>STANDING: Yes, and
that's in the DNA.
So that's just a simple fact, is
nine times in the-- there's nine
female mitochondria's--
>>NOORY: Who made it with who?
>>STANDING: That's
through the Melba Ketchum
and other substantiative
DNA studies.
And I can actually see that,
too, where nine times--
a half man half-- or half
human, half Sasquatch female
only has bred back
in the population.
And that truth in the
beginning, well, people
are saying, why only females?
And now I'm seeing a
male-dominated society,
a male who was half human and
half Sasquatch would be weaker
and wouldn't be able to compete
and produce viable offspring,
whereas a female is always
going to automatically get
a male to breed with her.
It's just the way it works
in male-dominated societies
where males are competing.
>>NOORY: What kind of male would
have mated with a Sasquatch?
>>STANDING: One that was a male.
>>NOORY: A human?
>>STANDING: Well, just again,
theoretically, a male Sasquatch
would breed with a human female.
And that's what I'm seeing
in the First Nations legends
as well as, female, human
females were abducted.
>>NOORY: What is the
offspring look like?
>>STANDING: I don't know.
In fact, it's happened
a long time ago.
So those are very deep
questions that I just
don't have the answers to yet.
>>NOORY: How many Sasquatch
groups are out there, Todd?
What do you think?
>>STANDING: A lot.
I mean, in my documentary,
Discovering Bigfoot,
when I talk about
it, I say 15,000.
I really use that
number, though,
based on the amount of people
that were in this particular
region I was doing this study,
just to show percentages,
where there's 15 million people
live in 20% of the territory,
15,000 of them, which is
a fraction live in 80%
of the territory.
And that's just in
the Pacific Northwest.
And I think those
numbers are probably
pretty decent because
the more I go out--
I literally most of
the time when I go out,
I can see signs that
Sasquatch are leaving
and I can interact with
them in particular areas.
So I think there is a
significant abundance of them,
If you want to say
15,000 is abundant.
>>NOORY: Well, and are
they Indigenous primarily
to North America?
>>STANDING: They are so
well-adapted to survive
in North America, it's
like a white tailed deer
or a black bear.
They are incredibly symbiotic,
Indigenous like human beings
have never been.
In all our history,
humans always
used technology,
TPS, bows and arrows,
even picking up a club, right?
We all have that.
They never did that
and they don't need to.
When you're nine feet
tall, over 900 pounds,
you can fight hand to
hand with a grizzly bear
and win, especially
when you're intellectual
and you're intelligent about it.
And there's so many advantages.
>>NOORY: They get that tall?
>>STANDING: Oh, yeah.
They're so big, so enormous.
And when you actually think
about it, a nine foot four--
my dominant male
that's in my area that
allows me to go and
do the research there,
he's nine foot four
and that's only--
with my shoes on,
I'm six foot five,
so let's say approximately
just around three feet taller
than me.
That's only a third bigger.
But I'm 220 pounds
and he's 950 pounds.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>STANDING: So that's where you
get, OK, he's three feet tall--
>>NOORY: Sign him up
for a football team.
>>STANDING: Right?
No, no.
You can't.
There's nothing-- a 10-year-old
Sasquatch would annihilate
the best NFL players
in the world.
Look, you're talking
twice the size
of a gorilla, more
than twice the power
because they're
cold-weather primates.
Gorillas have looser fibers.
When you get colder, like
a bear that's 400 pounds,
has significantly better power
and speed than a gorilla.
But you take that and you
apply that cold-weather primate
like we've never seen.
All the primates we know of are
all tropical or subtropical.
So you have a cold-weather
primate that's
got denser muscle tissue.
It's what I've
seen and what I've
measured in the ecology
with their power,
is nothing short of terrifying.
>>NOORY: Todd, aside
from the obvious,
what's the difference between
a male or a female Sasquatch?
>>STANDING: The
sexual dimorphism
between males and females,
it's really significant.
Like the Patterson footage,
which is absolutely real,
that female--
I have her maybe 400
pounds, 500 pounds,
she's only about six foot four.
So you're literally
talking, again,
they're a third taller
and then weight double.
So there's significant
sexual dimorphism.
And what that shows us is
when birds are the same size
or animals are the
same size, there's
less competition between males.
The more a gorilla is
bigger than female gorillas,
the more competition
between males there is.
So in the biology, we can assume
that males compete for females.
They're much bigger,
much stronger.
And so now you're going to
have a very masculine-dominated
society that has no respect
for weakness, which they don't.
We do.
Our weak people are
all over the place.
So when you're
born, you survive.
Doesn't matter how
strong you are.
They don't have those things.
And although they're the most
man-like species to the point
where they can interbreed with
us and produce viable offspring,
they are literally in every
other way, the opposite of us.
And that's something
that I teach
my expeditioners it's hard for
people to wrap their head around
is they're the most,
but they're the apps--
we're technological
and domesticated,
they're wild and free.
And that's what
should really get
people, especially in America.
You're dealing
with a free being.
We're not free.
Your shoes domesticate you,
your clothes domesticate you.
They literally wake up
in the morning naked
and walk right out of their rock
that they slept under their tree
and go thrive.
They're beholden to
no one and they're
free to do whatever they
want, whenever they want.
>>NOORY: And they don't have
to go to work every day.
>>STANDING: They do.
They go survive, and they
thrive in these environments,
and they have
tremendous abundance
and really good success there.
They're the apex species
in their environment,
no different than we're apex
when it comes to technology.
But you versus them
and you will lose.
That's how we have to have
respect for the miracle that is
nature and our natural selves.
And that's what the
Sasquatch teach us,
is how powerful
we are in nature.
And what scares me and the
message I'm trying to teach
is stop domesticating, stop
being so technologically
advanced.
You got to get back to nature
because that's where we thrive.
>>NOORY: The group
that you study,
how did you connect with them?
>>STANDING: They called to me.
They attracted me out there.
I had dreams and I
was drawn to a place.
And then what really capped
it, though, is there's
kind of two areas.
There's a Nordic-- so I did
Survivorman Bigfoot in Nordic
and Radium, and it was always
kind of a battle back and forth.
They were both trying to
attract me in various ways,
but at the end of the day, I
was so well received in Radium.
They interact with me.
So well and it's
chemistry, right?
I have good, really
solid, amazing chemistry.
Although I missed the
Sasquatch in Montana
and I missed the Sasquatch
in Alberta, the BC Sasquatch.
>>NOORY: You'll get there.
>>STANDING: Yeah.
And that's the expansion of
what I do, new research sites,
new people involved that are
doing research like I am,
and expanding the
knowledge and understanding
of this incredibly,
massively important study.
Sasquatch, the
discovery of Sasquatch
will blow up your
network, will explode it.
Even quantum physicists that
I talked to and work to.
They're like, Sasquatch are
doing these quantum things
and manipulating
frequency, seeing
beyond into the earth where
there's abundance and flowers
and communicating
with the mushrooms
as they communicate
to themselves.
We're all capable
of these things.
And that's what the Gaia
network is so much about.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
Seager and its role.
>>STANDING: So he is the
dominant male in that area.
And he allows for all the
success that I garner.
He's the tribal leader.
And I've come to the conclusion,
for me, anthropologically, I
find the best comparisons
between gorillas
and human beings when I apply
it in nature to Sasquatch.
And originally I applied--
there was a dominant male like
gorillas, and that dominant
male had a harem of females,
and I actually don't--
I believe that's
not true anymore.
I have evidence to show that
there's a tribal leader, more
like the First Nations, the
Native American people--
a tribal leader, and he has
a monogamous relationship
with his female.
But he rules over the
tribe, even the elders.
And he makes all the decisions.
His daughters and his sons
and his family come around me,
and he's the one that
allows for it all.
And when he gets involved,
it's really special
because he's such a
powerful entity that it
takes really powerful even.
He's attracted and
drawn to strong men.
And it's a wonderful experience
when I get him to come around.
But he's always watching.
They're making sure
everything's OK
because he's the guardian
and as a masculine,
he's extremely protective.
And the fact that he's allowed
his daughter and his sons,
even the young ones,
to come around me,
especially when I'm alone--
>>NOORY: It seems like there's
some intelligence there.
>>STANDING: It's
incredible intelligence.
They literally have a working
intelligence, a spirituality
and a morality to me, that
is so on par with nature.
They are literally--
like, we've learned
chimpanzees, as an example,
have something called
working intelligence
where they're much
smarter than a human being.
If you show them a
screen and they'll
identify 40 images, where a
genius human can maybe get 13.
I've tried the test.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>STANDING: And I've
seen the Sasquatch do
this in examples of-- it's
almost haunting the way they'll
look at the ground, and
then they'll look at you
and they'll run for 50
yards moving through trees.
They've memorized the ecology
and they can look at you now,
and it's haunting to see that.
Nothing can do that.
Nothing can memorize
all of that.
>>NOORY: I want to tell you a
Sasquatch story in a minute,
but let's take a look at some
tape of some other members
of the Sasquatch family,
and you can tell us
what we're looking at.
>>STANDING: So this is Kabota.
He's an elder.
And the evidence to substantiate
this footage is real
is absolutely incredible,
because the eye spacing
is non-human.
And when you look at this,
if it's non-human eye spacing
and you clearly can
see nasal moving--
>>NOORY: There's his face.
>>STANDING: Yeah.
I mean, it's clearly the
blinking eyes, the wet eyes.
>>NOORY: He looks human.
>>STANDING: It does.
But the spacing between
the eyes are not human.
And if you saw that in real
life, you'd realize the head
is 15 inches across.
This is Jake.
So a Sasquatch I had incredible
live interactions with.
He was actually
a friend of mine.
I considered him a
good teacher of mine.
You can see him blinking,
and he's gone now.
I haven't seen him
in many years, which
has been very upsetting to me.
>>NOORY: You think he died.
>>STANDING: No, I think he
was a dominant young male,
and he's gone off.
There he is.
This is another video of Jake.
He's just gone off to
somewhere far away.
>>NOORY: This is
incredible video, Todd.
This is absolutely stunning.
>>STANDING: And don't
take my word for it.
Come out with me.
And I show people this.
>>NOORY: What's this?
>>STANDING: This is Jake again.
This is just--
I focused on the
eye blink there.
So I turned up the
exposure-- and all my stuff
is documentary style.
So I can turn up saturation
like I do in this one.
Saturation gets turned up,
but just so you can clearly
see that individual.
And again, eye
spacing is non-human.
And I proved that head--
oh my god, my head is
seven inches across.
That head is like 16 across.
My head fits just over
the passage of his nose.
This is a female.
I call her Jane.
That's the daughter of Seager.
And my colleague, Ashley, has
incredible success with her.
It was amazing to me.
My Native teacher-- so I
initially thought this was just
a male Sasquatch--
my Native teacher--
here she is from a
different angle--
Looked at that and said,
wow, you filmed a female.
Years later, I saw breasts on
her, and I've seen her around
and I gauge what
female Sasquatch
do based on her
tracks, which are
the same size as the
Patterson footage
and her interactions and
the way she shows herself.
She'll walk around a puddle.
A male will blast through it.
She'll make gentle, beautiful
tree breaks that are precise,
and a male is rugged
and harsh and wants
a big giant egotistical.
>>NOORY: Why don't
they run away from you?
>>STANDING: Right here
she's looking down at me.
She's the last line
of defense for me
going into a position where I
was going to get more footage.
>>NOORY: Why did they
let you get so close?
>>STANDING: Ah, she didn't.
I was moving in a
ghillie suit and I'd
come-- see the snow there?
Literally, I came in.
I had success because
there was snowstorm so
bad you couldn't see your
hand in front of your face.
So I got into the snowstorm.
After the snowstorm--
this is the day
after, they came back
down the mountain.
>>NOORY: And where
is this located?
>>STANDING: This is close
to Radium, British Columbia.
And all this is Jane.
So you can see
everywhere there's snow.
And now what's happening
too it's gone up way above--
It was in the fall.
So we had a minus 10
day with a snowstorm.
Next day it's like plus 15.
So all the snow is
melting like crazy,
which creates sound and makes
me better to be stealthy.
But she's looking,
she's closing in on me.
And when she finally
nails it that that's Todd.
He's there.
Literally, a Sasquatch walks up
behind me, grabs me by the ankle
and pulls me out of
my ghillie clothes.
>>NOORY: That's some of
the most unbelievable video
I've ever seen.
>>STANDING: That's
never going to stop.
And again, I've taken out
people and showed them that.
Survivorman has
been out with me.
He filmed the top of
the head of a Sasquatch,
which matches Jake's head,
and he's been out there
and he's Survivorman, again,
one of the greatest outdoor--
no, the greatest outdoor
survivalist filmmaker
of all time.
And he literally goes,
I have no explanation
for what's out there
in the wilderness.
I know all animals.
I know what moose
and bird sound like.
And something took my
apples, left giant footprints
on the ground,
got footage of it.
And the truth is, behind the
scenes, he knows they're real.
He's trying to be skeptical.
So he's siding with the
majority of people that believe
that Sasquatch aren't real.
He's trying to draw them over.
>>NOORY: Do you have
a lot of doubters
when they see the films?
>>STANDING: Absolutely.
Yeah, it's preposterous the
infinite amount of garbage
that gets thrown at me.
But I've learned
from my mentors,
especially my Native mentors,
when someone can see the truth,
they look at that
footage-- like I've
seen Native elders look at it
and go, oh, that's a Bigfoot.
And you'd be like,
how they know?
Because when someone is
true and they're flowing
and they have good energy,
they can look at things,
they can at the
Patterson footage
and they don't
need any evidence.
They can know it's real.
I wasn't like that.
I am now.
I can look at something, I
can feel the energy of it
and the truth comes out for me.
And that's really what I'm
here and why I'm exposing this,
because they are real
and that's the truth.
And I will prove it.
I will prove it with
the hardline skeptics.
My first order of business
was always fish and wildlife
through the petition and
through my court cases
that I fought for in California
and British Columbia.
I wanted fish and
wildlife to come out
with me because I will damn
well show them a Sasquatch.
That was what I did
in the very beginning,
in 2006, when I
knew they were real.
I walked into fish and
wildlife in Montana,
in Idaho and Alberta
and British Columbia.
I walked into their
office and said,
forget about the
news and the media.
Who's got the
intestinal fortitude
to come out with me and I
will show you a Sasquatch?
And I've been doing
that from the beginning.
And that's the next level
of a discovery process,
is when they have, I'm
just going to say it,
the balls to come out
and say, prove it to me.
Show me a Sasquatch and I
will win every single time.
>>NOORY: I'm going
to tell you a story
and you tell me if
you think it's true.
>>STANDING: OK.
>>NOORY: A guy calls
my radio show--
>>STANDING: Yes.
>>NOORY: And he said he's
fishing on the side of a lake.
>>STANDING: Yes.
>>NOORY: And he
catches two trout.
>>STANDING: Yes.
>>NOORY: He turns around
and behind him, he says,
the Sasquatch.
>>STANDING: Yeah.
>>NOORY: He said he scared the
living daylights out of him.
And he said Sasquatch
walked up to him
and looked at the two fish.
>>STANDING: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: He panicked and handed
the two fish to the Sasquatch.
>>STANDING: Yes.
>>NOORY: Sasquatch took
the two fish, looked at him
and gave him one back.
>>STANDING: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Do you believe that?
>>STANDING: Yes.
They do that all the time.
I can put up 10 apples, and
if I have three expeditioners,
seven will get taken
and three will get left.
>>NOORY: That tells me
there's an intelligence there.
>>STANDING: Well, even beyond--
>>NOORY: An emotion.
>>STANDING: Yeah.
What animal is going to do
anything other than devour them?
Like the ability to
cooperate, to be cognizant.
And I guarantee you,
if I talk to that man,
I wouldn't ask him
about the fish.
I'd say, tell me
about the wilderness.
Tell me about the
sounds that you hear,
how much you appreciate
nature, and I'll
find a man if he's telling
the truth that's beautiful
and loving of nature,
and I'll show him
that Sasquatch has been
watching him for a long time.
That incident transpired
after years of the Sasquatch
learning about him and
studying him and knowing
that he's a good man.
And when I interview
somebody, at the end of it,
when I know they're
telling the truth,
because they are
good people, I'll
say something that nobody says.
I say, congratulations, you
manifested a Sasquatch encounter
because you were so beautiful
and so connected to nature.
>>NOORY: That is amazing.
>>STANDING: And I feel that.
That's where I can really
connect with these people,
is going deeper and seeing
that they love nature
and how the Sasquatch finds
them kindred, and then
even that exchange--
and it's not just
the Sasquatch getting that trout
and the man getting the trout.
It's that all-- that
permission and that cooperation
and that next step
into not being afraid.
I would tell that man,
get back out there.
Because if he's scared off
and he's not going back,
it's defeated the
purpose of the incident.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>STANDING: Right?
Get back out there.
There's something really
beautiful about you.
Get back to nature.
That's going to keep
happening to you.
People that have
that success truly
will continue to have
that because they
have that beautiful
love of nature
and that beautiful
light inside them
that the Sasquatch
can recognize,
and they'll garner
continuous success,
or they get so scared
they never go back.
And I'll tell you, the Sasquatch
is very disappointed in that.
That's not what they intended.
>>NOORY: You brought us a
clip of a Sasquatch moving
with incredible speed
through the environment.
>>STANDING: Faster than
the fastest man can move.
Absolutely.
>>MAN: By the trees.
[PANTING]
>>STANDING: I got it.
Oh.
This is absolutely raw
footage with my audio in it.
And it stabilized, to be
put into 1080p by Amanda.
Now we're going to do
this with no audio.
So here's the Sasquatch.
Look how fast he's moving there.
She's going to slow it
down in the next segment.
But did you see that leg speed?
That is incredible for a
seven foot four individual.
Smokes through the Bush there.
Now, do you see that
little something there?
We're going to go back
to that in a second.
Flies up that hill and
then-- see him slow down?
Stutter step.
Boom!
Right into a wall.
Now watch really closely
as she's traced it.
Look at this.
This is slowed down.
Look at that speed and
look really closely.
He slips and almost
goes down there.
And then he's back up on his
feet almost perfectly, fluidly,
right back up into the trees.
And now he can't
get breaking speed.
He's got to slow down.
Seems slow down in
the stutter step
because he just hit
a wall of trees.
Look at this tracing
that Amanda did where
you can see the body parts.
Now here's the slip.
Look at him go down and slip.
See the trees moving?
That's a slippage because
he's blasting through there
so quickly, right back up.
Almost seamlessly,
like a quadruped.
And then step quick, quick,
quick, quick, little step,
little step.
The reason for those little
steps is that wall of trees
that he had to run
into and break through.
So here we go again.
This is just the way it
was originally filmed.
All very well
stabilized by Amanda.
All the way back through
the trees he's moving.
I don't hear anything there.
Then you see the trees shake in
that one spot Amanda zoomed in
on where he slipped up again.
Bang, bang into
the wall of trees.
>>NOORY: What in God's
name, Todd, did we just see?
>>STANDING: Well,
that's 100% a Sasquatch.
And I was totally mistaken.
So I always try to
under-promise and overdeliver.
I said seven foot four.
Now we know for a fact,
it's been proven--
because I was standing there and
I did a recall of the situation.
Someone pour me in side by
side with that Sasquatch.
He's over nine feet tall,
in excess of 900 pounds.
>>NOORY: You were two
feet short on him.
>>STANDING: That's the
end of the conversation.
You can't put a nine foot
tall person in a suit.
There isn't any.
I watched Harry Potter
when they did Hagrid.
They couldn't make
him eight feet tall,
and he walks around
very mechanically.
Warner Bros, with millions
of dollars worth of budget,
couldn't do what I did in
2006 because it's not possible
unless that's a real
bipedal being that exists.
And what's amazing too, when
I talk about how he slows down
and he slips, a kineticist
analyzed that whole piece
of footage and concluded that
a human being, the fastest
man in the world, couldn't
do that in 21 seconds.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>STANDING: And this individual,
after slipping and slowing--
can you imagine a sprinter?
If he slowed down before the
end, how slow his time would be?
And that nine foot plus tall--
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
>>STANDING: It's not
possible to be anything
other than a new species.
>>NOORY: Before we get into
another incredible video,
tell us about a tree episode
that happened to you.
>>STANDING: A tree episode?
>>NOORY: Something fell on you?
>>STANDING: Oh, in
video six, yeah.
So that was winter time, and
I was approaching a Sasquatch
following his track.
She was dog-tracking
in his trackway
and I have footage
that shows, again--
this Sasquatch was probably
more around nine foot eight.
So an individual I
hadn't had experience
with, and it was about three
feet of snow, minus 20.
As I approached him--
so they always triangulate.
And this is like incredible
military intelligence and stuff.
So I'm looking at a Sasquatch
that wants to evade me.
A Sasquatch to my right
is growling at me,
trying to get my attention.
And as I get too close,
it was the third Sasquatch
that was off
triangulated to my left
that I didn't know
about that gently tossed
a log at me to take
me out so I would
stop pursuing the Sasquatch that
I was following a trackway of.
>>NOORY: Did they
want to hurt you?
>>STANDING: No.
If they ever wanted to
hurt me, you would never
hear about Todd Standing again.
>>NOORY: You would not
be sitting in this chair.
>>STANDING: No, no.
Like, I have to say
this very, very clearly.
They gently lobbed a log
at me to take me out.
It hurt my shoulder to
this day, I could feel it.
It hurts, but it was
not meant to kill me.
And I have to make
that so clear.
Every eventuality that
ever had with them,
they were nothing
short of gentle,
and made that they were
very careful not to harm me.
When you're that powerful, if
they were to just-- they could
crush my head like a beer can.
>>NOORY: Well, let's
take a look at the video
you brought us
about this episode.
>>STANDING: Sure.
We're walking up on a Sasquatch.
There's a trackway again that
you can see I'm zooming in on.
I've got a night light
or an infrared light.
That's the only reason my camera
can see anything right now.
It's pitch black, and I'm
about to walk up on a Sasquatch
that you can see right now
in the middle of the screen.
But more importantly,
you're going
to hear another Sasquatch
make itself well-known to me
off to the right now.
[GROWLING]
Now that I know I have
a Sasquatch that's
getting-- that's
protesting off to my right,
I know I have to keep
moving forward and following
this trackway.
At this point, I'm starting
to make something out directly
in front of me.
Again, now I can hear
a Sasquatch moving up
on me to my right.
Just stepping in the snow.
However, I'm focused on that
directly in front of me.
Clearly, a back and an arm
are pointed back towards me,
and this creature has no idea
that I can see it right now.
The reason I know it's there
is I've seen the trackway,
and that is standing out
to me like a sore thumb.
There's tracks.
There's some very
large, enormous object.
So I'm going to proceed
forward, as I always do.
So I'm getting a little
nervous right now.
I'm concerned about making
sure I have my focus.
This is a wild animal.
I'm approaching hundreds
of miles from the nearest
human being, hundreds of
miles from the nearest town,
out in the middle of
nowhere, all by myself.
That's a Sasquatch.
I'm trying to get my focus.
My equipment has been out
in minus 22, for four days.
Cold.
Two feet of snow.
Three feet of snow.
And this is what happens.
Don't blink.
[INTRIGUING MUSIC]
That's an 80 pound log
that just took me out
from the third Sasquatch.
I had no idea was there,
that was off to my left.
There were three of them.
They stood together.
This is what happens.
Now, this is about
an hour later.
That exact same spot.
I am 230 pounds.
I'm six foot five
with those boots on.
And I'm going to stand
in that exact spot.
Now that you can see
it's completely vacant.
I'm standing there
in the trackway,
and when I jump or put
my arms in the air,
my hands straight up in the
air are about eight foot six,
which are still not reaching
the height of the Sasquatch
that had just been
previously standing there.
So very clearly an
empty space now.
This is only less than an
hour after the whole incident
transpired.
Again, there's the
creature, clearly enormous.
I'm 230 pounds, and I
look like a little nothing
compared to that giant
that's standing there
over eight foot
six tall, probably
in excess of 800 to 900 pounds.
Standing there less than
20 yards away from me.
>>NOORY: And they seem
to have left you alone.
>>STANDING: Well, absolutely.
They just wanted me to stop.
There was so much more
that had happened.
I mean, I could do a whole
movie about all the things
that were going on before that.
I mean, they're just
an incredible species.
They're always
trying to teach me.
Like, I'm a good
student sometimes.
Sometimes I need
to learn a lesson.
Sometimes I need to
have a log thrown at me.
But for the most part-- like,
even understand this, George.
Like, there's so
many layers of depth.
But this one thing, I
went back there the year
after that log that
was thrown at me.
I want to measure it.
I want to weigh it.
It's gone.
>>NOORY: What do
they sound like?
>>STANDING: Oh, whatever
they want to sound like.
They're the most incredible
mimickers of birds.
Like Native people
could do that.
They could make bird sounds.
If they want you to know you're
there, they'll let you know.
Their vocal range, though--
I mean, this is just an
example of what I experienced.
So Les Stroud, Survivorman,
is a professional singer.
He's got incredible vocal cords.
He's a trained singer.
He made a Sasquatch call under
my guidance that was beautiful.
All he did was just-- he went,
[VOCALIZING] It was beautiful.
Two minutes later, we heard that
exact sound duplicated back to
is 10 times louder.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
[VOCALIZING]
>>STANDING: It was in the
show, and we stop in our tracks
and we're like,
what just happened?
>>NOORY: And where did
that come from, right?
>>STANDING: And what happened
was the Sasquatch heard us
down low.
He ran to the top
of a mountain, which
I went and found the
trackway, would take me
45 minutes to do in good shape.
He ran to that top of
the mountain to get that,
to make sure we heard the call.
And then he pounded it back.
So their lung capacity,
their vocal capabilities
are minimally, I would
say, five times what
a professional singer like
Les Stroud is capable of,
which is hard to believe.
>>NOORY: Have they ever grabbed
you or anything like that?
>>STANDING: Yes.
Especially one time, people
like to talk about, where--
it's footage where I have a
flare and it's red footage.
And that's a day of Sasquatch
actually made physical contact
with me, picked me up
in a way that I've heard
many other people talk about.
Legitimate people that
have been picked up
and moved by Sasquatch.
They have a very
specific technique
to pick up a human being and
then hold them on the hips
and move off with them.
It's actually-- I
don't know how to say--
it's comfortable the way
they hold you up like that.
Well, it's comfortable
anatomically.
It's terrifying
physically because I've
played high-level football.
I've wrestled with
330-pound men in football.
Nobody has ever picked me up and
tossed me around anywhere near.
A Sasquatch picked me
up like a rag doll.
>>NOORY: Like a rag doll.
>>STANDING: And
just like gently.
Like, he didn't whip me, but
he just latched onto my hips
with his hand.
>>NOORY: How big was the
hand next to your hand?
>>STANDING: Oh,
there's no comparison.
Well, let me hit my hips--
his hand went all the way
across my hips comfortably,
you could see.
So I'm talking probably
three times the size of me.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>STANDING: And
the power, if you
know about gorilla
hand strength,
so it's bigger than
a gorilla hand,
significantly more powerful.
And then he ran
with me off terrain
like I couldn't even believe.
Simply, it's like throwing my
weight on the back of a horse.
The horse barely feels my--
>>NOORY: You had some videotape
of the episode where they
were taking you away, right?
>>STANDING: That moment, yeah,
the day they picked me up.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a look at that.
[GROWLING]
[BLEEP]
>>STANDING: God [BLEEP] it.
[PANTING]
God [BLEEP] it.
Get out of here!
[BRANCHES BREAKING]
[BLEEP]
Get out of here!
[SCREAMS]
[BLEEP]
[SCREAMS] Get out of here!
[SCREAMS]
[GROWLING]
[BLEEP]
Get out of here!
Ha!
What do you want?
[BLEEP]
Ha!
What the [BLEEP] is going on?
Shouldn't be here.
>>NOORY: Todd, you seem to have
changed over the years from
being--
>>STANDING: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: --scared of
them to almost where
they're your friends.
>>STANDING: Yeah.
Well, they were just
giving me a lesson.
And they live hard lives.
They're tough beings and
even that, there's so much.
I hadn't slept properly
in about four days,
I hadn't eaten solid
food in five days,
so that's after I had
gotten the Jane footage.
So I'd come back
and I had footage
and I was very successful.
But what I wanted
was-- for years
I'd wanted a spiritual
animal ritual.
You've probably
heard about that.
And what I didn't realize is
the Sasquatch performance.
And so what they're doing
is-- even when I'm saying,
what are you doing here?
Because they're
trying to push me--
they kept trying to push me
back into the wilderness.
And previously, there was
always watching me, allowing
me to leave and pushing
me out, and now they're
pushing me back in.
So it was very perplexing to me.
It was terrifying because
I'm trying to leave
and they don't really
want me to leave,
and now they're trying
to push me back.
And that's when the
Sasquatch picked me up
because I wasn't going back.
He picked me up and carried
me back into the wilderness.
And so I just wasn't
getting the message.
>>NOORY: Did he hurt you?
Were you injured?
>>STANDING: Not at all.
No.
I had injured myself.
I had hurt my knee
pretty significantly.
And then the next
day, when I woke up,
after where he'd left me,
a grizzly bear chased me
up the mountain.
And that's where I
actually did the proper--
where I take people now--
I took Survivorman,
I take other people
and show them this
holy place where
the Sasquatch performs spiritual
animal rituals on human beings.
>>NOORY: He saved
your life, didn't he?
>>STANDING: On
multiple occasions,
they've saved my life, yeah.
Not that day, particularly.
>>NOORY: Give us
one of the stories.
>>STANDING: Sure.
So on a day I
actually got footage,
but I wasn't
supposed to be there,
I ended up dropping the camera.
The Sasquatch,
Seager approached me,
smashing a rock on the ground
and absolutely terrified me.
So I left my camera and I ran
from them, which you don't do.
As I was running from them, they
were running up alongside of me,
and they'd kind of bump me in
the back and I'd fall down.
And what eventually
happened was I
ran into a log that had
a broken branch on it,
and it stabbed me in the leg.
So I kept moving along as
best I could, but my boot was
filling up with blood and I
was bleeding quite profoundly.
Again, that time,
I had not eaten
or drank water in two days.
You have to do that to be
stealth, to really go on--
>>NOORY: One more day you're
dead, for crying out loud.
>>STANDING: So what
actually happened
was that night, as I was
coming across a cliff edge
on the top of a
mountain, I slipped off
of some ice that was on a
glacier that was melting,
and I fell into the creek
and went unconscious.
That's death.
>>NOORY: Who pulled you out?
>>STANDING: They did.
The next day, I woke
up on the ridge.
I could see the
drag marks where I
was dragged up onto the ridge
where there was sunlight.
So out of the creek
that I'd fallen in,
dragged up onto that ridge.
And the injury was fixed
up to the point where
when I-- so when I did get
back and I went to a doctor,
he said, well, who did this?
And I had to go, oh, it was
some medicine man, a Native guy.
And he said, well, let
me tell you something.
That's clean.
And how many days
have you had it?
At that time I'd had it for
like three or four days.
It's clean and sealed in a
way like I've never seen.
If I pull that off,
it's going to bleed
and I'm going to have
to stitch that up.
So if this breaks
open, come back to me.
Otherwise, whoever
put that together--
>>NOORY: Leave it.
>>STANDING: --I'm impressed.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>STANDING: And it literally
came off about 10 days later.
And that huge hole
that was that big
that they would have had to
stitch up, that I also bled out
through was--
I mean, there's barely
a scar to this day.
>>NOORY: You've learned
from Sasquatch, haven't you?
>>STANDING: They're my teachers.
I am a student of theirs.
Period.
I literally as a technologically
advanced human being,
have nothing to teach
them other than humans
are a dangerous species, and
they should be wary of us.
That's what I can teach them.
Other than that,
they are the masters
of the wilderness, which is
what the term Sasquatch actually
means.
It means wilderness master
by the Squamish people.
And if you listen to
all these Native people,
they call them the
boss of the mountains,
shadow guardian of
the mountains, all
these enduring terms.
Because they are such a
dominant species in wilderness.
>>NOORY: How do
they help us evolve?
>>STANDING: By helping
us go to the next level.
They're teaching telepathy.
They're teaching
connectivity to nature.
how important it
is to be organic and
have that wildness to us.
It doesn't take a
rocket scientist
to know that the way people are
looking at dopamine hit videos
online that are so popular,
that children are not connecting
to nature, that boys that
want to get out and play
are put in classrooms
and given drugs
and said, you just be
a zombie, that's bad.
That's very, very bad for us.
We need to reconnect
with our wildness,
and only a wild
thing can be free.
So the more domesticated we
get, the less we are wild
and the less we are free.
People need to understand
that, we need to get back to.
And it's not just
freedom like, I can walk.
No, I'm talking about nature.
I'm talking about real wildness.
They're the ultimate wild
bipedal hominid, our closest
living relative.
They will teach us telepathy.
They will teach us how to truly
thrive in nature on a quantum
level that they
are so brilliant at
and they are so successful with.
And I can prove that
because I've worked
with the best in the world.
I am, if not the best, one of
the best trackers in the world
when it comes to North
American terrain.
>>NOORY: I would say you are.
>>STANDING: Thousands of days
of back country wilderness
experience.
And the reason I tell
you this is I have never
had the upper hand on them.
The only time I ever
thought I was ahead,
it was because I
was so far behind.
>>NOORY: Are you scared of them?
>>STANDING: No, no.
I've come to peace with
this a very long time ago.
If a Sasquatch wants me
gone, I will disappear.
Every time I've
ever gone out there,
not only are they
receptive to me,
but they protect me
and keep me safe.
I'm doing things
that are impossible.
My expeditioners have
never been harmed.
I take them out into black bear,
grizzly bear, mountain lion
country.
We go into the most
dangerous places with food.
And over a decade now, I've
been doing that unharmed.
There's only one
way you can do that,
and I don't care how
skilled a human being are,
you're not going to make it.
You're going to
have a bear attack.
You're going to have a
mountain lion attack.
You're going to
piss off the wolves.
The only way you can do
that is if you're protected
and the Sasquatch keep
me safe and protect me.
>>NOORY: What keeps
driving you, Todd?
>>STANDING: Oh, because
humanity needs this discovery.
Enlightened individuals
can learn so much.
The Sasquatch want
human beings to ascend
to that other level of
telepathy, of connectivity
to nature.
And people, many people,
like, pretty much
your entire network get that.
We need to ascend.
And once we ascend, once
the people become telepathic
and become free and open,
they're going to run things.
And the Sasquatch
want those people.
And the Sasquatch are
reaching out to us
to help us move
in that direction,
because we are ultimately very
responsible for the health
of this planet in many ways.
And they want us to find the
light and through telepathy,
through nature is the light.
That is where we can
exist and thrive.
And we need to stop
becoming so technological
and move back to the power
of the natural world.
And that's what they're
teaching, and they love it.
And I'm so passionate
about that because that
makes the world a better place.
>>NOORY: Where can people
see more of your videos?
>>STANDING: I'm on
YouTube, I'm on TikTok.
My movie.
I'm basically
Discovering Bigfoot.
So Discovering
Bigfoot, the movie.
Discoveringbigfoot.org.
discoveringbigfoot@gmail.com.
Those photographs and
those videos that you saw,
I give them away.
I have Patreon followers and
the discovery is every year.
I'm literally a much better
researcher than I was last year.
I'm doing all brand
new things every year.
>>NOORY: Pretty
darn good any time.
>>STANDING: Yeah, like every
year I get better, I grow.
This is my job.
I'm a full-time Sasquatch
researcher, and that's all I do.
I talk to people and--
>>NOORY: Don't stop.
>>STANDING: Never will.
As long as there is
breath of life in me
for the rest of my days, I
will a Sasquatch researcher.
>>NOORY: Thanks for being
on Beyond Belief, Todd.
>>STANDING: Thanks
for having me.
>>NOORY: If you were not
a believer in Sasquatch
before you watch
this program, you
are now, because let
me tell you something,
those are the most amazing
videos I have ever seen,
and I've seen them all.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]